# Women-Safety-System-Using-Arduino-Uno-Microcontroller
Women's safety is a very important issue due to rising crimes against women these days. To help resolve this issue we propose a GPS based women's safety system that has security feature. Women’s security is a critical issue in today’s world and its very much needed for every individual to be acting over such an issue. This paper describes a “GPS and GSM based tracking and women employee security system” that provides the combination of GPS device and specialized software to track the vehicle’s location as well as provide alerts and messages with an emergency button trigger. Now a days due to recently happened cases such as rape by drivers or colleagues, burglary etc., employee security, especially women employee security has become the foremost priority of the companies. System uses the Global Positioning System technology to find out the location of vehicle. The information of vehicle position provided by the device can be viewed on Google maps using Internet or specialized software. The IT companies are looking forward to the security problem and requires a system that will efficiently evaluate the problem of women employees security working in night shifts. This device will prove to be very useful in saving lives as well as preventing atrocities against women. 


The working of selected modules is as follows: The device can be activated by just merely pressing the emergency button once. This device gets activated and the alarm starts ringing and also sends instant location with a message to the police and concerned family members. when the emergency button is clicked, the device sends the message with instant location message to the police but we used any 3 random phone numbers as this is just a demo. The location is located using GPS module. The GSM Modem (sim 900) can accept any GSM network operator SIM card and act just like a mobile phone. The plus point of using this modem will be that you can use its RS232 port to communicate and develop embedded applications.

Microcontroller(ARDUINOR3)
The Arduino Uno R3 is a microcontroller board based on a removable, dual-inline-package (DIP) ATmega328 AVR microcontroller. It has 20 digital input/output pins (of which 6 can be used as PWM outputs and 6 can be used as analog inputs).
Global Positioning System (GPS) module: - It is a navigation and precise positioning tool, tracks the location in the form of longitude and latitude based. The GPS Coder Module used this information to search an exact address of that location as the street name, nearby junction etc. In case where GPS is disabled then the system will only send the longitude and latitude. Internet is mandatory.

GSM System Module: -
Global System for Mobile communication (GSM) SIM card is inserted inside the mobile device to send and receive the messages using GPRS. The GSM SIM card number is registered with the system. With increasing usage of GSM, network services are expanded beyond speech communication to incorporate many other custom applications, machine automation and machine to machine communication 

BUZZER: A buzzer or beeper is an audio signalling device, which may be mechanical, electromechanical, or piezoelectric (piezo for short). Typical uses of buzzersand beepers include alarm devices, timers, and confirmation of user input such as a mouse click or keystroke Emergenyswitch The emergency button is part of the vehicle unit. 

Emergency button is very important facility provided to employees travelling by bus. The emergency button is connected to the digital pin of the Teltonika device.Emergency button is attached at a position that it should be easily available to employees in an emergency situation i.e. beside the chair, to the central pole. Employee can access it easily. On pressing an emergency button an alert message and the information regarding the exact location area of the vehicle is send to the nearest police station and company’s special team.
